23.0.0.8 staging (#3264)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2023-08-22-23.0.0.8.adoc

With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command is updated to better manage dependencies among the features that it installs. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger. 

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 23.0.0.8:

* <<pkce, Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients>>
* <<featureinstall, Ensure sufficient features are installed when using `featureUtility installFeature` command>>
* <<CVEs, Security Vulnerability (CVE) fixes>>

Along with the new features and functions added to the runtime, we’ve also made <<guides, updates to our guides>>.

View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23008+label%3A%22release+bug%22[23.0.0.8].

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.8

> For link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven projects], use the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/README.md[Liberty Maven Plugin] for quicker and easier development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven projects], use the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/README.md#plugins[Liberty Maven Plugin] for quicker and easier development:
```

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>io.openliberty.tools</groupId>
    <artifactId>liberty-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>3.8.2</version>
    <configuration>
      <runtimeArtifact>
         <version>23.0.0.8</version>
      </runtimeArtifact>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
----

> For link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle projects], use the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/README.md[Liberty Gradle Plugin] for quicker and easier development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle projects], use the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/README.md#usage[Liberty Gradle Plugin] for quicker and easier development:
```

> For link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle projects], use the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/README.md[Liberty Gradle Plugin] for quicker and easier development:

Reviewer 2: Can we point to a section within the README? For gradle add `#usage` and for maven add `#plugins` to the link.

Reviewer: Yes, done, thanks

[source,gradle]
----
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenLocal()
        mavenCentral()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'io.openliberty.tools:liberty-gradle-plugin:3.6.2'
    }
}
----

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {

>     libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.8,)'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '23.0.0.8'
```

>     libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.8,)'

Reviewer 2: Change this to just be `'23.0.0.8'` for the version.

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/mbroz2
author_github: https://github.com/mbroz2
seo-title: Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: PKCE support in OpenID Connect clients to prevent authorization code interception attacks in certain specific contexts. Also, changes to the featureUtility installFeature command, a new OpenTelemetry and Jaeger guide, and bug fixes.
blog_description: PKCE support in OpenID Connect clients to prevent authorization code interception attacks in certain specific contexts. Also, changes to the featureUtility installFeature command, a new OpenTelemetry and Jaeger guide, and bug fixes.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients in Open Liberty 23.0.0.8
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command has been updated but be aware that it might now download more features for you than it used to; we recommend using `featureUtility installServerFeatures` to install the specific set of features you need for a server configuration. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger, and, of course, we've been fixing bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the featureUtility installFeature command has been updated to download all tolerated versions of any dependencies of the features you ask for to ensure the server starts for any compatible feature combination; we recommend using featureUtility installServerFeatures to install the minimum, specific set of features you need for a server configuration. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger, and, of course, we've been fixing bugs.
```

Reviewer: @Azquelt Does this wording work?

Reviewer 3: I feel like theres a relatively large block of text here but it still doesn't tell you what the update is or why it's valuable. Could it be more concise and leave the detail to the body of the post?

```suggestion
With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command is updated to better manage dependencies among the features that it installs. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger, and, of course, we've been fixing bugs.
```

Reviewer 3: if we really need to include the rec to use install server features in the opening paragraph, could do something like

```suggestion
With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command is updated to better manage dependencies among the features that it installs. However, we recommend you use the `featureUtility installServerFeatures` command to install the minimum specific set of features you need for a server configuration. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger and, of course, we've been fixing bugs. 
```

> With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command is updated to better manage dependencies among the features that it installs. However, we recommend you use the `featureUtility installServerFeatures` command to install the minimum specific set of features you need for a server configuration. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger and, of course, we've been fixing bugs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command is updated to better manage dependencies among the features that it installs. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger and, of course, we've been fixing bugs. 
```

    </featureManager>
    ...
    <openidConnectClient pkceCodeChallengeMethod="S256" ... />
----

If you are using the Social Media Login feature, include configuration similar to the following example:

[source,xml]
----
    <featureManager>
        <feature>socialLogin-1.0</feature>
    </featureManager>
    ...
    <oidcLogin pkceCodeChallengeMethod="S256" ... />
----

For more information about the configuration options, refer to the docs for the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/openidConnectClient.html[openidConnectClient element] and the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/oidcLogin.html[oidcLogin element].

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25926
// Contact/Reviewer: Azquelt
// // // // // // // // 
[#featureinstall]
== Ensure sufficient features are installed when using `featureUtility installFeature` command
When `featureUtility installFeature <featurename>` is used to install a feature on the command line, the feature and all required dependencies are installed.

> However, this doesn't guarantee that the feature will start correctly when used with other features in the server, particularly for features that can work with multiple versions of other features. This means that you could list all the features you wanted to use on the command line but find that they didn't all work together because `featureUtility` hadn't installed the right version of every dependency.

Reviewer 3: > ... particularly for features that can work with multiple versions of other features. 

Isn't the problem that some features _can't_ work with multiple versions, or that they only work with a particular version? Might be reading this wrong

```suggestion
However, this doesn't guarantee that the feature will start correctly when used with other features in the server, particularly for features that work only with specific versions of other features. This means that you could list all the features you wanted to use on the command line but find that they didn't all work together because `featureUtility` hadn't installed the right version of every dependency.
```

Reviewer 4: No, the problem arises when installing a feature which tolerates multiple versions of another feature. E.g. `mpConfig-3.0` depends on `cdi-3.0` but tolerates `cdi-4.0`.

With the old behaviour, if you asked to install `mpConfig-3.0`, we would also install `cdi-3.0` for you.

However, this can cause problems. For example you could ask to install `mpConfig-3.0` and `servlet-6.0` - we would also install `cdi-3.0` as above, but `cdi-3.0` and `servlet-6.0` don't work together because one is from EE9 and the other is from EE10. In this example, `cdi-4.0` is needed which still works with `mpConfig-3.0` and also works with `servlet-6.0`.

Unfortunately, when there are several tolerated versions for a dependency, we don't know which is the right one to install unless we know the full set of features the user will use in their configuration. When the user requests to install features on the command line like this, we don't have that information.

The new behaviour is to install every tolerated version of each dependency. So for `mpConfig-3.0`, we'd now install both `cdi-3.0` and `cdi-4.0` since we don't know which one you will need and installing both is the only way to guarantee that the right one will be available, no matter what combination of features you configure in your server.xml.

Reviewer 3: thanks for this explanation. I kept tripping over this sentence because you have a feature that _can_ work with multiple versions resulting in a dependency conflict, which is somewhat counterintuitive. But I understand why now and I can't think of a way to make it more plain without getting unnecessarily deep in the weeds.

> To ensure this doesn't happen, running `featureUtility installFeature <featurename>` now installs all versions of any dependencies required by the requested feature, which might result in a larger number of features being installed in some circumstances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prevent this problem, running `featureUtility installFeature <featurename>` now installs all versions of any dependencies required by the requested feature, which might result in a larger number of features being installed in some circumstances.
```

The similar command `featureUtility installServerFeatures <servername>` was not affected by this problem and its behaviour is unchanged. Using `installServerFeatures` is the recommended way to install features as it always installs exactly the minimum set of features needed for the given server configuration.

>    

Reviewer 3: given this, why would you ever use `featureUtility installFeature <featurename>`? It must have some specific value or we wouldn't have taken the time to update it. Maybe we don't need to add that to this post but the docs should make it clear. When would you want to use installFeature instead of installServerFeatures?

Reviewer: @dmuelle I agree - which is why I originally went with the longer intro bit (but I agree that's unnecessary as the info is here). I think the docs should be updated with this recommendation as you say. Maybe needs a docs issue so we don't lose the discussion in here?

Reviewer: I've quickly opened a docs issue. It's poorly written and needs editing but we have a placeholder at least to discuss this further: [6826](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/docs/issues/6826)

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/docs/issues/6827

[#CVEs]
== Security vulnerability (CVE) fixes in this release
[cols="5*"]
|===
|CVE |CVSS Score |Vulnerability Assessment |Versions Affected |Notes

|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2023-38737[CVE-2023-38737]
|5.9
|Denial of service
|22.0.0.13 - 23.0.0.7
|Affects the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS-3.0] and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1] features
|===
For a list of past security vulnerability fixes, see the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/security-vulnerabilities.html[Security vulnerability (CVE) list].

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23008+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 23.0.0.8].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25712[NullPointerException when using app-defined java:module data source for JPA.]
+

> Liberty fails with NullPointerException from internal code when the user specfies an application-defined data source with a `java:module` name for a Jakarta Persistence persistence unit.  If I switch to `java:comp` it works fine, but fails with `java:module`,

Reviewer 3: is this one resolved? it's not clear. This reads like a bug report, not a fix

	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.StartAction.execute(StartAction.java:184)
	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.ApplicationStateMachineImpl.enterState(ApplicationStateMachineImpl.java:1369)
	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.ApplicationStateMachineImpl.run(ApplicationStateMachineImpl.java:912)
	at com.ibm.ws.threading.internal.ExecutorServiceImpl$RunnableWrapper.run(ExecutorServiceImpl.java:247)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:1136)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:635)
	at java.base/java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:889)
----
+
which shows in `messages.log` as:
+
[source]
----
[7/13/23, 10:20:12:005 CDT] 0000004d com.ibm.ws.app.manager.AppMessageHelper                      E CWWKZ0002E: An exception occurred while starting the application DataValidationTestApp. The exception message was: com.ibm.ws.container.service.state.StateChangeException: java.lang.NullPointerException: Cannot invoke "com.ibm.ws.injectionengine.osgi.internal.OSGiInjectionScopeData.processDeferredReferenceData()" because "scopeData" is null
----
+

> Expected behavior: Should start up cleanly and supply the EntityManagerFactory to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expected behavior: Starts up cleanly and supplies the EntityManagerFactory to the application.
```

Reviewer 3: Is it clear that "Expected behavior" is implemented? I feel like we usually say something like 
```suggestion
This problem is now resolved. Liberty starts up cleanly and supplies the EntityManagerFactory to the application. 
```

+
Following discussions with the JAXRS and Liberty Performance teams, it has been decided that this change should be removed until a complete solution can be identified.
+
Expected behavior: No memory leak.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25693[MYFACES-4611]
+

If a ViewExpiredException is handled by a custom ExceptionHandler which performs some implicit navigation, the following NullPointerException can occur:
+
[source]
----
java.lang.NullPointerException
at org.apache.myfaces.view.facelets.ViewPoolProcessor.isViewPoolEnabledForThisView(ViewPoolProcessor.java:236)
at org.apache.myfaces.application.NavigationHandlerImpl.handleNavigation(NavigationHandlerImpl.java:324)
at org.apache.myfaces.application.NavigationHandlerImpl.handleNavigation(NavigationHandlerImpl.java:117)
at ....CustomExceptionHandler.handle(CustomExceptionHandler.java:45)
----
+

> Expected behavior: No NullPointerException is expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expected behavior: No NullPointerException.
```

//* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25646[Semicolon inside text parameter in Reason header will result in the sipcontainer dropping the request ]
//+

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25632[MYFACES-4512]
+
A NullPointerException can occur when an application defines a custom ViewHandler that does not override the default implementation of `getViewDeclarationLanguage()` which returns null.
+

> Expected behavior: A NullPointerException would not be expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expected behavior: No NullPointerException.
```

// For this section ask either Michal Broz or Tom Evans or the #openliberty-release-blog channel for Notable bug fixes in this release.
// Present them as a list in the order as provided, linking to the issue and providing a short description of the bug and the resolution.
// If the issue on Github is missing any information, leave a comment in the issue along the lines of:
// "@[issue_owner(s)] please update the description of this `release bug` using the [bug report template](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/new?assignees=&labels=release+bug&template=bug_report.md&title=)" 
// Feel free to message the owner(s) directly as well, especially if no action has been taken by them.
// For inspiration about how to write this section look at previous blogs e.g- 20.0.0.10 or 21.0.0.12 (https://openliberty.io/blog/2021/11/26/jakarta-ee-9.1.html#bugs)
// // // // // // // //

// // // // // // // //
// If there were updates to guides since last release, keep the following, otherwise remove section.
// Check with Gilbert Kwan, otherwise Michal Broz or YK Chang
// // // // // // // //
[#guides]
== New and updated guides since the previous release

> As Open Liberty features and functionality continue to grow, we continue to add link:https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=new&key=tag[new guides to openliberty.io] on those topics to make their adoption as easy as possible.  Existing guides also receive updates to address any reported bugs/issues, keep their content current, and expand what their topic covers. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As Open Liberty features and functionality continue to grow, we continue to add link:https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=new&key=tag[new guides to openliberty.io] on those topics to make their adoption as easy as possible.  We also update existing guides to address any reported bugs/issues, keep their content current, and expand what their topics cover. 
```

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25876
// Contact/Reviewer: gkwan-ibm
// // // // // // // // 
* link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-telemetry-jaeger.html[Enabling distributed tracing in microservices with OpenTelemetry and Jaeger]
+

> A new guide in the link:https://openliberty.io/guides/#observability[Observability] category. Its cloud-hosted version was also released. With the guide, you'll learn how to enable distributed tracing in microservices with OpenTelemetry and Jaeger. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this new guide in the link:https://openliberty.io/guides/#observability[Observability] category,  you'll learn how to enable distributed tracing in microservices with OpenTelemetry and Jaeger. A cloud-hosted version is also available.
```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/mbroz2
author_github: https://github.com/mbroz2
seo-title: Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: PKCE support in OpenID Connect clients to prevent authorization code interception attacks in certain specific contexts. Also, changes to the featureUtility installFeature command, a new OpenTelemetry and Jaeger guide, and bug fixes.
blog_description: PKCE support in OpenID Connect clients to prevent authorization code interception attacks in certain specific contexts. Also, changes to the featureUtility installFeature command, a new OpenTelemetry and Jaeger guide, and bug fixes.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients in Open Liberty 23.0.0.8
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> // // // // // // // //
> // In the preceding section:
> // Do not insert any blank lines between any of the lines.
> // Do not remove or edit the variables on the lines beneath the author name.
> //
> // "open-graph-image" is set to OL logo. Whenever possible update this to a more appropriate/specific image (For example if present a image that is being used in the post). However, it
> // can be left empty which will set it to the default
> //
> // "open-graph-image-alt" is a description of what is in the image (not a caption). When changing "open-graph-image" to
> // a custom picture, you must provide a custom string for "open-graph-image-alt".
> //
> // Replace TITLE with the blog post title eg: MicroProfile 3.3 is now available on Open Liberty 20.0.0.4
> // Replace mbroz2 with your GitHub username eg: lauracowen
> // Replace DESCRIPTION with a short summary (~60 words) of the release (a more succinct version of the first paragraph of the post).
> // Replace Michal Broz with your name as you'd like it to be displayed, eg: Laura Cowen
> //
> // Example post: 2020-04-09-microprofile-3-3-open-liberty-20004.adoc
> //
> // If adding image into the post add :
> // -------------------------
> // [.img_border_light]
> // image::img/blog/FILE_NAME[IMAGE CAPTION ,width=70%,align="center"]
> // -------------------------
> // "[.img_border_light]" = This adds a faint grey border around the image to make its edges sharper. Use it around screenshots but not           
> // around diagrams. Then double check how it looks.
> // There is also a "[.img_border_dark]" class which tends to work best with screenshots that are taken on dark
> // backgrounds.
> // Change "FILE_NAME" to the name of the image file. Also make sure to put the image into the right folder which is: img/blog
> // change the "IMAGE CAPTION" to a couple words of what the image is
> // // // // // // // //

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

> With Open Liberty's new Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) support in OpenID Connect clients, you can prevent authorization code interception attacks, which can occur in certain very specific scenarios. Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command has been updated but be aware that it might now download more features for you than it used to; we recommend using `featureUtility installServerFeatures` to install the specific set of features you need for a server configuration. We've also got a new guide on using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger, and, of course, we've been fixing bugs.

Reviewer 5: for the `featureUtility installFeature` part, I would recommend replacing the part "but be aware that it might now download more features for you than it used to;" with instead something that explains why/how it was updated.  For example: 

> Also in this release, the `featureUtility installFeature` command has been updated to download all tolerated versions of dependent features to ensure the server starts for any compatible feature combination; we recommend using `featureUtility installServerFeatures` to install the minimum, specific set of features you need for a server configuration.

Reviewer 4: > Also in this release, the featureUtility installFeature command has been updated to download all versions of a feature to ensure the server starts for any compatible feature combination; we recommend using featureUtility installServerFeatures to install the minimum, specific set of features you need for a server configuration.

This wording is not quite correct. It downloads all tolerated versions of any dependencies of the features you ask for, rather than all versions of a feature you ask for. Previously it would only download one of the tolerated versions.

Reviewer 5: ah, yes.  Updated.

> // // // // // // // //
> // In the preceding section:
> // Leave any instances of `tag::xxxx[]` or `end:xxxx[]` as they are.
> //
> // Replace RELEASE_SUMMARY with a short paragraph that summarises the release. Start with the lead feature but also summarise what else is new in the release. You will agree which will be the lead feature with the reviewers so you can just leave a placeholder here until after the initial review.
> // // // // // // // //
> 
> // // // // // // // //
> // Replace the following throughout the document:
> //   Replace 23.0.0.8 with the version number of Open Liberty, eg: 22.0.0.2
> //   Replace 23008 with the version number of Open Liberty wihtout the periods, eg: 22002
> // // // // // // // //

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 23.0.0.8:

* <<pkce, Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients>>
* <<featureinstall, Ensure sufficient features are installed when using `featureUtility installFeature` command>>
* <<CVEs, Security Vulnerability (CVE) fixes>>
* <<bugs, Notable bug fixes>>

> // // // // // // // //
> // If there were updates to guides since last release, keep the following, otherwise remove section.
> // // // // // // // //

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

Along with the new features and functions added to the runtime, we’ve also made <<guides, updates to our guides>>.

> // // // // // // // //
> // In the preceding section:
> // Replace the TAG_X with a short label for the feature in lower-case, eg: mp3
> // Replace the FEATURE_1_HEADING with heading the feature section, eg: MicroProfile 3.3
> // Where the updates are grouped as sub-headings under a single heading 
> //   (eg all the features in a MicroProfile release), provide sub-entries in the list; 
> //   eg replace SUB_TAG_1 with mpr, and SUB_FEATURE_1_HEADING with 
> //   Easily determine HTTP headers on outgoing requests (MicroProfile Rest Client 1.4)
> // // // // // // // //
> 

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23008+label%3A%22release+bug%22[23.0.0.8].

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

> // // // // // // // //
> // LINKS
> //
> // OpenLiberty.io site links:
> // link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven]
> // 
> // Off-site links:
> //link:https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/installation#jar[Download Instructions]
> //
> // IMAGES
> //
> // Place images in ./img/blog/
> // Use the syntax:
> // image::/img/blog/log4j-rhocp-diagrams/current-problem.png[Logging problem diagram,width=70%,align="center"]
> // // // // // // // //
> 

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.8

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>23.0.0.8</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.8,)'
}
----

Or if you're using link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/container-images.html[container images]:

[source]
----
FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/start/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25739
// Contact/Reviewer: ayoho
// // // // // // // // 
[#pkce]
== Prevent authorization code interception attacks with PKCE support for OpenID Connect clients

> OpenID Connect clients in Open Liberty now support Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) (link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636[RFC 7636]). PKCE is an extension of the OAuth 2.0 specification and provides protection from authorization code interception attacks for OAuth 2.0 public clients. In very specific scenarios, a malicious application can intercept an authorization code intended for a legitimate OAuth 2.0 public client and use the authorization code to obtain access and ID tokens on behalf of the client. PKCE introduces additional steps and request parameters to prevent such interception attacks.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
OpenID Connect clients in Liberty now support Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) (link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636[RFC 7636]). PKCE is an extension of the OAuth 2.0 specification and provides protection from authorization code interception attacks for OAuth 2.0 public clients. In very specific scenarios, a malicious application can intercept an authorization code intended for a legitimate OAuth 2.0 public client and use the authorization code to obtain access and ID tokens on behalf of the client. PKCE introduces additional steps and request parameters to prevent such interception attacks.
```

To ensure this doesn't happen, running `featureUtility installFeature <featurename>` now installs all versions of any dependencies required by the requested feature, which might result in a larger number of features being installed in some circumstances.

The similar command `featureUtility installServerFeatures <servername>` was not affected by this problem and its behaviour is unchanged. Using `installServerFeatures` is the recommended way to install features as it always installs exactly the minimum set of features needed for the given server configuration.
   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

For more details, see:

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/command/featureUtility-installFeature.html[featureUtility installFeature docs]
* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/command/featureUtility-installServerFeatures.html[featureUtility installServerFeatures docs]

> // // // // // // // //
> // In the preceding section:
> // Replace TAG_X/SUB_TAG_X with the given tag of your secton from the contents list
> // Replace SUB_FEATURE_TITLE/FEATURE_X_TITLE with the given title from the contents list 
> // Replace FEATURE with the feature name for the server.xml file e.g. mpHealth-1.4
> // Replace LINK with the link for extra information given for the feature
> // Replace LINK_DESCRIPTION with a readable description of the information
> // // // // // // // //
> 

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

[#CVEs]
== Security vulnerability (CVE) fixes in this release
[cols="5*"]
|===
|CVE |CVSS Score |Vulnerability Assessment |Versions Affected |Notes

|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2023-38737[CVE-2023-38737]
|5.9
|Denial of service
|22.0.0.13 - 23.0.0.7
|Affects the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.0.html[restfulWS-3.0] and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1] features
|===

> // // // // // // // //
> // In the preceding section:
> // If there were any CVEs addressed in this release, fill out the table.  For the information, reference https://github.com/OpenLiberty/docs/blob/draft/modules/ROOT/pages/security-vulnerabilities.adoc.  If it has not been updated for this release, reach out to Kristen Clarke or Michal Broz.
> // Note: When linking to features, use the 
> // `link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/someFeature-1.0.html[Some Feature 1.0]` format and 
> // NOT what security-vulnerabilities.adoc does (feature:someFeature-1.0[])
> //
> // If there are no CVEs fixed in this release, replace the table with: 
> // "There are no security vulnerability fixes in Open Liberty [23.0.0.8]."
> // // // // // // // //

Reviewer 5: No issue with leaving these in, but I do try to delete them simply to make it easier for reviewers and anyone else to navigate the post contents.
```suggestion
```

	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.StartAction.execute(StartAction.java:184)
	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.ApplicationStateMachineImpl.enterState(ApplicationStateMachineImpl.java:1369)
	at com.ibm.ws.app.manager.internal.statemachine.ApplicationStateMachineImpl.run(ApplicationStateMachineImpl.java:912)
	at com.ibm.ws.threading.internal.ExecutorServiceImpl$RunnableWrapper.run(ExecutorServiceImpl.java:247)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:1136)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:635)
	at java.base/java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:889)
----
+
which shows in `messages.log` as:
+
[source]
----
[7/13/23, 10:20:12:005 CDT] 0000004d com.ibm.ws.app.manager.AppMessageHelper                      E CWWKZ0002E: An exception occurred while starting the application DataValidationTestApp. The exception message was: com.ibm.ws.container.service.state.StateChangeException: java.lang.NullPointerException: Cannot invoke "com.ibm.ws.injectionengine.osgi.internal.OSGiInjectionScopeData.processDeferredReferenceData()" because "scopeData" is null
----
+

> Expected behavior: Should start up cleanly and supply the EntityManagerFactory to the application.

Reviewer 5: In the past, I've worded these 'Expected behavior' parts to focus on the outcome of the defect so that it's clear to the end user what the resolution of the defect was and explain the new behavior. So something like:
"This issue has been resolved.  The `EntityManagerFactory` is provided to the application and the `NullPointerException` is no longer thrown.
